## Yeti Defense Food
_created by_: Arlo Gittings  
_created on_: Who knows, this stuff has benn brewin' for over a decade  
_last modified_: 2021-09-01

----

### The Deep Magics

----

> Little known fact: _Yeti **love** pumpkin seeds._ Knowing this could one day 
> save your life.
>
> _-- Unpossible?! You meant done. Deep 4th Shift Lore_

----

I have been many things in my life, but for the vast majority of it I spent in
various capacities as an internet technician/engineer/technical manager of some
sort. I also tend to avoid normal work schedules and the politics an rigamaroll
what goes with them. So I worked overnights, weekends, holidays and kept the
world spinning while the daywalkers enjoyed hour-long commutes in stop and go
traffic, hovering micromanagement, all the fun stuff that goes with the 
territory. When I got married, my wife was not nearly as big a fan of the 
rolling schedule that I had grown accustomed to duing my bachelor days. I was
working(midnight - noon Sat, midnight - noon Sun, midnight - 0800 Mon on job 1
and 0900-1700 Mon-Fri on job 2. So I trimmed back the hours to 3 days a week on
job 2 and flopped to 1600 - midnight Fri, noon - midnight Sat, noon - midnight
Sun at job 1. This put me on what was known as 4th shift. 

After a couple of  years on 4th shift, my co-manager at the time took a 
different position and one of the network admins was promoted. She and I worked
in the same cubicle and had a pretty good run. Sitting back-to-back with her in 
less than 8 foot of desk space led to some frustration at times, but we got 
through it and have remained good friends to this day. The origins of Yeti
Defense Food (YDF) tracks back to one of these frustration episodes.
There are many quirks about me that become irritating after a while, but the 
ones that are key here are

- I am allergic to macadmia nuts. As this was an adult onset allergy, there is
a significant likelihood that I could develop an allergy to other nut protiens
at any time. So I avoid all nuts and go a bit crazy when they are around me if
I have not slept in a couple days.
- I easily latch onto phrases/words that are rhythmic/humorous and repeat them
unconsciously. 
- I have a habit of doing way too much research into anything that catches my
fancy. For example, I once spent nearly 8 hours one day researching exterior
doors, their inserts, pricing, construction, folks around town that made them.
I have never owned a home.

While working a particularly rough weekend, I wanted something crunchy, salty,
nutty. Well as that wasn't really a possibility I got to looking at alternative
foods. I remembered that we used to make pumpkin seeds when I was a kid and 
they tasted a lot like peanuts in the shell. But I am not a fan of the shell 
portion of the ordeal as they tended to be difficult to remove and often broke
up as you tried to eat them, or if you choose to eat the whole thing, you end 
up chewing shards of angry paper long after you are done with the pumpkin seeds
Well I learned that you can buy shelled pumpin seeds, I went to the local food
store and bought some raw, shelled pumpkin seeds. 

While I was snacking on them, I started doing some research on their uses, 
cultivation, traditions, all sorts of stuff. During this research, I learned 
that these were used _a lot_ in Latin American cuisine. They were used in rice,
stews, as a thickener alternative in some mol√® recipes; and the had a better
name for them than pumpkin seeds.

Pepitas. Try it, pepitas. Just rolls off the tongue and makes you chuckle a
bit, pepitas. I bet you can see where this is heading. . . the next few weeks
were torture for my co-manager, Several times per shift she would let me know
that I was muttering pepitas. After one of these barrages, she told me to knock
it off and I looked at her and said, 'Little known fact, yeti *LOVE* pepitas!'
This broke us severely and for the rest of that shift there would be random
laugter at this ridiculousness.

Over the next few months, I kept a pretty steady supply of pepitas to snack on.
The place that had the best price on them was the local international market. 
One run to the market I decided to pick up some eccles cakes (If you don't
know, you better ask somebody!). As I sat out in front of the store enjoying my
pastry and a can of milk coffee (Mr. Brown's), I decided to pop a handful of 
seeds. MY HEAD ASPLODE!! This was one of the the best flavor profiles that I 
had ever had.

The next time that I was in the market, I was picking up the pepitas, which was
kept in a small section in the produces department housing the nuts, seeds, and
dried fruits in deli containers. I was looking around the dried fruits to see 
if there was something for my granola experiment I was working on and they had
black currants, the primary ingredient in eccles cakes. I grabbed a pack and 
the original was born.

These are several iterations of the same sort of theme. Pumpkin seeds and dried
fruit. Some I am a huge fan of others not so much. Some were created for a 
special set of circumstances, some becuase I found a name I wanted to use and
designed a thematically appropriate YDF around it.

----

### The Methods

The vast majority of these are assembled by simply dumping the components into
a vessle and mixing. I prefer to not make a large amount in advance, but if you
do I strongly suggest that you keep the seeds separate from the fruit. The 
moisture from the fruit will tend to be pulled into seeds causing a mushy mix
the longer they are in contact with each other 

#### Measuring

In the recipes, I use part measurments. The base 'serving size' which I use to
list the nutritional value is for the part. If for example I give a serving
size of 28g, that means that 1 part is equal to 28g, and any other measurement
is a multiple of that so if a recipe has 1 part ingredient a and 2 parts of
ingredient b with a serving size of 20g, the total weight for a single serving
would be 60g. This is to save on having to do division from the final product.
The sole exception to this is any spices that are added. Because the amount of
spice is so miniscule compared to weight of other ingredients, they will be 
given separately. 

#### Pumpkin Seeds

I use hulled, raw pumpkin seeds unless otherwise noted. Later on I might get
into the production, harvest and hulling of these, as I want to be able to 
create my own supply and test out the flavor differences between varieties of
pumpkins. But for now, I use bulk, allergen free suppliers on the internet, of
which there are too many to mention here. 

#### Dried Fruit

I prefer non-sulfured, organic, unsweetened fruit for my mixes. These tend to
have a better flavor in my opinion and mix better with the seeds. The biggest
exception to this is cranberries. I find unsweetened dried cranberries tough to
put down, in this case I look for ones that use apple or grape juice as a 
sweetener. The organic, unsweetened fruits will be a bit more costly than their
conventional counterparts, but I look for smaller, sustainable outfits that can
supply me to avoid a lot of the mass economy chain. If possible, locally grown,
bought in season and dried at home is ideal, but not really needed. as many
responsible growers and drehydration specialists provide allergen free product.

Many of the recipes do not specify a particular fruit. They will simply call 
for a mixture of sweet or sour fruit.

##### Sweet Fruit:
- Black Currant
- Raisins or Zante Currant
- Prunes
- Peaches
- Apples
- Pears
- Apricots
- Blueberries
- Strawberries
- Pineapple

##### Sour Fruit:
- Cranberries
- Tart Cherries
- Pineapple

If I prep the fruit, I will dice it into very small cubes (1/8", 2-3mm), this
allows them to mix well with the seeds and provide a more uniform flavor
profile. If I am in a rush, I will just toss them in as is and deal with it.

#### Grains

### The Recipes

#### YDF #1:
    28 g Pumpkin seeds
    28 g Dried black currants
    
    Per serving:
        F: 6
        C: 36
        P: 6
        E: 205

#### YDF #2:
    28 g Pumpkin seeds
    28 g Dried cranberries
    14 g Dried black currants
    
    Per serving:
        F: 6.5
        C: 46
        P: 5.5
        E: 242.5

#### YDF #3:
    28 g Pumpkin seeds
    28 g Dried cranberries
    14 g Dried black currants
    14 g Fine shred coconut
    14 g Rolled oat
    
    Per serving:
        F: 16.5
        C: 59
        P: 8.5
        E: 393.5
